.TH "SYNCACHE-DRB" "1" 
.SH "NAME" 
syncache-drb - SynCache dRuby object cache server
.SH "SYNOPSIS" 
.PP 
\fBsyncache-drb\fP [ \fBoptions\fP ] [ \fBURI\fP ]
.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
.PP 
\fBsyncache-drb\fP starts a Distributed Ruby server providing a
SynCache::Cache object.
.PP 
SynCache::Cache is a thread-safe time-limited object cache with flexible
replacement strategy.
.SH "OPTIONS" 
.IP "\fBURI\fP" 4
A URI with druby: schema that the DRb server binds to, default is
\fBdruby://*:9000\fP
.IP "\fB--help\fP" 4
Display usage information and quit.
.IP "\fB--ttl\fP SECONDS" 4
Time-to-live value for cache entries, default is 24 hours.
.IP "\fB--size\fP ENTRIES" 4
Maximum number of objects in cache, default is 10000.
.IP "\fB--flush-delay\fP SECONDS" 4
Rate-limit flush operations. If less than that number of seconds has passed
since last flush, next flush will be delayed. Default is no rate limit.
.IP "\fB--user\fP USER" 4
Run as USER if started as root. Default is nobody.
.IP "\fB--error-log\fP ERROR_LOG_PATH" 4
File to write errors to. Default is /dev/null. When run as root,
the file is chowned to USER:adm.
.IP "\fB--debug\fP" 4
Enable debug mode. If an error log is specified with --error-log, all
messages will be sent there instead of syslog.
.IP "\fB--pidfile\fP PATH" 4
Path to pidfile. By default, pidfile is created under /var/run/syncache-drb/
when run as root, or under $TMPDIR otherwise. Location should be writeable by
USER.
.IP "\fB--foreground\fP" 4
Do not daemonize, switch to a different user, create pidfile, redirect output,
or log to syslog.

.SH "AUTHOR" 
.PP 
This manual page was written by Dmitry Borodaenko <angdraug@debian.org>.
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU GPL version 3 or later.
